modules/installation-user-infra-machines-iso.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-restricted-networks-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal-network-customizations.adoc
// * installing/installing_platform_agnostic/installing-platform-agnostic.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_z/installing-ibm-z.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-ibm-power"]
:ibm-power:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-ibm-power"]
:ibm-power:
endif::[]

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-iso_{context}"]
= Creating {op-system-first} machines using an ISO image

Before you install a cluster on
ifdef::ibm-power[IBM Power Systems]
infrastructure that you provision, you must create
{op-system} machines for it to use. You can use an ISO image to create the
machines.

.Prerequisites

* Obtain the Ignition config files for your cluster.
* Have access to an HTTP server that can be accessed from your computer, and from the machines that you create.

.Procedure

. Upload the control plane, compute, and bootstrap Ignition config files that the
installation program created to your HTTP server. Note the URLs of these files.

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
If you plan to add more compute machines to your cluster after you finish
installation, do not delete these files.
====

ifndef::openshift-origin[]
. Obtain the {op-system} images that are required for your preferred method
of installing operating system instances from the
ifndef::ibm-power[]
link:https://mirror.openshift.com/pub/openshift-v4/dependencies/rhcos/latest/[{op-system} image mirror]
endif::ibm-power[]
ifdef::ibm-power[]
link:https://mirror.openshift.com/pub/openshift-v4/ppc64le/dependencies/rhcos/[{op-system} image mirror]
endif::ibm-power[]
page.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The {op-system} images might not change with every release of {product-title}.
You must download images with the highest version that is less than or equal
to the {product-title} version that you install. Use the image versions
that match your {product-title} version if they are available.
Use only ISO images for this procedure.
{op-system} qcow2 images are not supported for this installation type.
====
+
ISO file names resemble the following example:
+
`rhcos-<version>-live.<architecture>.iso`
endif::openshift-origin[]
ifdef::openshift-origin[]
. Obtain the {op-system} images from the
link:https://getfedora.org/en/coreos/download?tab=metal_virtualized&stream=stable[{op-system} Downloads] page
endif::openshift-origin[]

. Use the ISO to start the {op-system} installation. Use one of the following
installation options:
** Burn the ISO image to a disk and boot it directly.
** Use ISO redirection via a LOM interface.

. Boot the ISO image. You can interrupt the installation boot process to
add kernel arguments. However, for this ISO procedure you should use
the `coreos-installer` command instead of adding kernel arguments. If you
run the live installer without options or interruption, the installer boots up to a
shell prompt on the live system, ready for you to install {op-system} to disk.

. Review the _Advanced {op-system} installation reference_
section for different ways of configuring features, such as networking
and disk partitions, before running the `coreos-installer`.

. Run the `coreos-installer` command. At a minimum, you must identify
the Ignition config file location for your node type, and the
location of the disk you are installing to. Here is an example:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ sudo coreos-installer install \
     --ignition-url=https://host/worker.ign /dev/sda
----

. After {op-system} installs, the system reboots. During the system reboot,
it applies the Ignition config file that you specified.

. Continue to create the other machines for your cluster.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You must create the bootstrap and control plane machines at this time. If the
control plane machines are not made schedulable, which is the default, also
create at least two compute machines before you install the cluster.
====

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-ibm-power"]
:!ibm-power:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-ibm-power"]
:!ibm-power:
endif::[]

Commit message:

Issue 32515 - flagging xref for future update

modules/installation-user-infra-machines-iso.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-restricted-networks-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal-network-customizations.adoc
// * installing/installing_platform_agnostic/installing-platform-agnostic.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_z/installing-ibm-z.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-ibm-power"]
:ibm-power:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-ibm-power"]
:ibm-power:
endif::[]

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-iso_{context}"]
= Creating {op-system-first} machines using an ISO image

Before you install a cluster on
ifdef::ibm-power[IBM Power Systems]
infrastructure that you provision, you must create
{op-system} machines for it to use. You can use an ISO image to create the
machines.

.Prerequisites

* Obtain the Ignition config files for your cluster.
* Have access to an HTTP server that can be accessed from your computer, and from the machines that you create.

.Procedure

. Upload the control plane, compute, and bootstrap Ignition config files that the
installation program created to your HTTP server. Note the URLs of these files.

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
If you plan to add more compute machines to your cluster after you finish
installation, do not delete these files.
====

ifndef::openshift-origin[]
. Obtain the {op-system} images that are required for your preferred method
of installing operating system instances from the
ifndef::ibm-power[]
link:https://mirror.openshift.com/pub/openshift-v4/dependencies/rhcos/latest/[{op-system} image mirror]
endif::ibm-power[]
ifdef::ibm-power[]
link:https://mirror.openshift.com/pub/openshift-v4/ppc64le/dependencies/rhcos/[{op-system} image mirror]
endif::ibm-power[]
page.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The {op-system} images might not change with every release of {product-title}.
You must download images with the highest version that is less than or equal
to the {product-title} version that you install. Use the image versions
that match your {product-title} version if they are available.
Use only ISO images for this procedure.
{op-system} qcow2 images are not supported for this installation type.
====
+
ISO file names resemble the following example:
+
`rhcos-<version>-live.<architecture>.iso`
endif::openshift-origin[]
ifdef::openshift-origin[]
. Obtain the {op-system} images from the
link:https://getfedora.org/en/coreos/download?tab=metal_virtualized&stream=stable[{op-system} Downloads] page
endif::openshift-origin[]

. Use the ISO to start the {op-system} installation. Use one of the following
installation options:
** Burn the ISO image to a disk and boot it directly.
** Use ISO redirection via a LOM interface.

. Boot the ISO image. You can interrupt the installation boot process to
add kernel arguments. However, for this ISO procedure you should use
the `coreos-installer` command instead of adding kernel arguments. If you
run the live installer without options or interruption, the installer boots up to a
shell prompt on the live system, ready for you to install {op-system} to disk.

. Review the _Advanced {op-system} installation reference_
section for different ways of configuring features, such as networking
and disk partitions, before running the `coreos-installer`.
//Needs an xref to installation-user-infra-machines-static-network.adoc

. Run the `coreos-installer` command. At a minimum, you must identify
the Ignition config file location for your node type, and the
location of the disk you are installing to. Here is an example:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ sudo coreos-installer install \
     --ignition-url=https://host/worker.ign /dev/sda
----

. After {op-system} installs, the system reboots. During the system reboot,
it applies the Ignition config file that you specified.

. Continue to create the other machines for your cluster.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You must create the bootstrap and control plane machines at this time. If the
control plane machines are not made schedulable, which is the default, also
create at least two compute machines before you install the cluster.
====

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-ibm-power"]
:!ibm-power:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-ibm-power"]
:!ibm-power:
endif::[]
